More docs (#1922)
RoboJackets/robocup-software: docs/source/our_stack.rst

    To see when any documentation page was last updated, click "Edit on GitHub" in
    the top right, then see the timestamp on the last commit.

Gameplay
--------

> Gameplay is where our strategy is produced. It takes in the current state and

Reviewer: It's Play -> Tactic -> Role -> Skill, you have it PRTS here

assigns all robots a task based on some coordination. Our
system utilizes a play selector that chooses a play based on world state. After
that play assigns roles, each role selects a tactic based on their progress, and
tactic select an atomic skill to perform. The gameplay loop is set to tick at
60Hz. The code block below describes this process. Each time the timer
ends, the callback method is entered:

.. code-block:: python

        timer_period = 1 / 60  # seconds
        self.timer = self.create_timer(timer_period, self.gameplay_tick)

Motion Control
--------------

> A lot of the motion control is done on robot by the firmware, but part of the

Reviewer: This is a little vague imo. I would have put that both are PID controllers to correct for error, but the PID controller in software corrects for position error and the PID in FW corrects velocity.

motion control is handled by software. See the ``control`` directory,
``motion_control.cpp`` uses PID to correct robot position. The PID
controller implementation is not in software, but it is in the
`fshare repository <https://github.com/RoboJackets/robocup-fshare>`_.
Correction of robot velocity is done by robot firmware (the code that runs on
each robot's microcontroller) in the separate firmware repository.

Motion Planning
---------------
Motion planning is about generating a path from a robot's current position and
orientation (pose) to a goal supplied by gameplay. Starting at the lowest

> level, we use `RRT <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ob3BIJkQJEw>`, or Rapidly exploring Random Trees, for path generation. When the straight line path to a goal fails, we utilize the path generated by RRT (if there are no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
level, we use `RRT <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ob3BIJkQJEw>`_, or Rapidly exploring Random Trees, for path generation. When the straight line path to a goal fails, we utilize the path generated by RRT (if there are no
```
https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/references.html#links-to-external-web-pages

obstacles in that straight line why bother with RRT). We have our own RRT
implementation in `a separate repository <https://github
.com/RoboJackets/rrt>`_ which we use as a submodule. This
way others can easily use our RRT implementation if they want.

But we can't send a path to a robot and expect it to figure it out. We need
to give our firmware a single velocity command for that instant of planning.
The file ``soccer/src/soccer/planning/primitives/velocity_profiling.cpp``
finds that velocity trajectory which we can then return as the current
trajectory as the robot.

At the highest level of planning, we have several different planners which the
planning_node selects based on the skill that gameplay requested. They
have different behaviors and based on the their names which give you insight on their purpose. They are all located
in ``soccer/src/soccer/planning/planner``.

Although this is not an extensive explanation of everything planning does, it is a good start, and looking
through the ``planning`` folder will give you more information about this topic.

Processor
---------

> It is defined in ``soccer/src/soccer/processor.cpp``, and it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Processor is defined in ``soccer/src/soccer/processor.cpp`` and 
```

starts multiple temp nodes. It then updates the context in an infinite loop. Context is used to update the ui. It is good that most other nodes
are not dependent on this loop.

Radio
-----

> See the ``/radio`` directory. We have a sim radio for when using virtual

Reviewer: This section is a little weirdly structured. It would be clearer imo if it was:
* We have a sim radio and a real radio
* Sim radio does this
* Real radio does this

matches or testing locally, and a network radio for when we run on real
hardware. It sends commands to our robots using the league designated ports
for yellow and blue when in sim mode. The simulation packets are standardized
by the league and in the ``rj_protos`` directory (the ones with the ssl
prefix).

The network radio expects each robot to know the ip address of where to send
to. When soccer eventually receives a robot status message from a robot, it
adds the robot id to an ip map. Now our software knows how to reach that
robot id. If that robot doesn't send any robot status in a while, it will
disconnect and disappear from the UI (when running with real robots).

Referee
-------

> Referee controls the match state. We have an internal referee which can send

Reviewer: https://github.com/RoboJackets/robocup-software/pull/1925

I made some changes to this part

quick commands like stop and start from our UI, so we don't always have to
launch the game controller. When we do want to use the game controller
though, the external referee handles that by listening for game events and
updates on specific ports designated by the league.

UI
--
We use Qt for UI development. Code for it is located in ``soccer/src/soccer/ui``.
The ``qt`` directory contains the view as .ui files and images that are
placed on the view.
You could directly edit these .ui files based on their
proper syntax to change our view, but I wouldn't recommend it.
Instead install Qt designer and open .ui files through it to save yourself a
lot of time.

After the view, all the C++ files act as the view-model for each view.
Some of them are quite messy and do not follow our naming conventions; however,

>  if you follow the common method patterns, you should be able to

Reviewer: this line renders weirdly
<img width="704" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-17 at 5 37 43 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30275369/179425703-8a10ead1-2d48-4e88-8513-cb0283560825.png">

add new functionality to any part of our ui.

Vision
------

> There are two parts to vision, both equally important: receiver and filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two parts to vision: a receiver and filter.
```
The lines below could just be part of this paragraph

First, receiver gets frames from the simulator or camera. It does some

> updating, then sends that to the filter. Filter uses a kalman filter to

Reviewer: what "updating"?

    To see when any documentation page was last updated, click "Edit on GitHub" in
    the top right, then see the timestamp on the last commit.

Gameplay
--------
Gameplay is where our strategy is produced. It takes in the current state and
assigns all robots a task based on some coordination. Currently, we have a
system with a play selector that chooses a play based on world state. Then
that play assigns roles, roles select a tactic based on their progress, and
tactic select an atomic skill to perform. The gameplay loop is set to tick at
60Hz. The below code block is how currently that is done. Each time the timer

> ends, the callback method is entered:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gameplay is where our strategy is produced. It takes in the current state and
assigns all robots a task based on some coordination. Our
system utilizes a play selector that chooses a play based on world state. After
that play assigns roles, each role selects a tactic based on their progress, and
tactic select an atomic skill to perform. The gameplay loop is set to tick at
60Hz. The code block below describes this process. Each time the timer
ends, the callback method is entered:
```

.. code-block:: python

        timer_period = 1 / 60  # seconds
        self.timer = self.create_timer(timer_period, self.gameplay_tick)

Motion Control
--------------
A lot of the motion control is done on robot by the firmware, but part of the
motion control is handled by software. See the ``control`` directory,
``motion_control.cpp`` uses PID to correct robot position. The PID
controller implementation is not in software, but it is in the
`fshare repository <https://github.com/RoboJackets/robocup-fshare>`_.
Correction of robot velocity is done by robot firmware (the code that runs on

> each robot's microcontroller) in the separate firmware repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firmware decides most of the motion control, but part of it is handled by software. In the ``control`` directory,
``motion_control.cpp`` uses PID to correct robot position. The PID
controller implementation is not in software repository, but it can be found in the
`fshare repository <https://github.com/RoboJackets/robocup-fshare>`_.
Correction of robot velocity is done by robot firmware (the code that runs on
each robot's microcontroller) in the separate firmware repository.
```

Author: I'll resolve this one locally.

Motion Planning
---------------
Motion planning is about generating a path from a robots current position and
orientation (pose) to a goal supplied by gameplay. Starting at the lowest
level, we use RRT for path generation. This occurs after trying to apply a
straight line path to the goal and that is unsuccessful (if there are no

> obstacles in that straight line why bother with RRT?). We have our own RRT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Motion planning is about generating a path from a robot's current position and
orientation (pose) to a goal supplied by gameplay. Starting at the lowest
level, we use `RRT <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ob3BIJkQJEw>`, or Rapidly exploring Random Trees, for path generation. When the straight line path to a goal fails, we utilize the path generated by RRT (if there are no
obstacles in that straight line why bother with RRT). We have our own RRT
```

implementation in `a separate repository <https://github
.com/RoboJackets/rrt>`_ which we use as a submodule. This

> way others can easily use our RRT implementation if they want.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
way other teams can easily use our RRT implementation if they want.
```

Author: not just robocup teams can use that repo and it was actually a relatively popular project among random people. It is rather old now and could use a facelift though. Especially since we still use it.

Author: I'm not a big fan of the coding style employed in that repo. I feel someone would need to clean it up before we can add new features to it again.

But we can't send a path to a robot and expect it to figure it out. We need
to give our firmware a single velocity command for that instant of planning.
The file ``soccer/src/soccer/planning/primitives/velocity_profiling.cpp``
finds that velocity trajectory which we can then return as the current

> trajectory as the robot.

Reviewer 2: I think this section might be too specific. We could just talk about the low vs high level planning.

Author: Sure I can delete it then.

Reviewer: I don't hate it here. I would clarify that what happens is we generate a position path with RRT first, then turn it into a true Trajectory (points and velocities at each pt) with that velocity profiler, which takes max accel constraints into account.

At the highest level of planning, we have several different planners which the
planning_node selects based on what kind of skill gameplay requested. They
have different behaviors and based on the their names you can kind of get an
idea of what each would be used for. They are all located

> in ``soccer/src/soccer/planning/planner``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the highest level of planning, we have several different planners which the
planning_node selects based on the skill that gameplay requested. They
have different behaviors and based on the their names which give you insight on their purpose. They are all located
in ``soccer/src/soccer/planning/planner``.
```

This is not an extensive explanation of everything planning does, looking
through the ``planning`` folder will show you everything else, but it's a

> good start.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although this is not an extensive explanation of everything planning does, it is a good start, and looking
through the ``planning`` folder will give you more information about this topic.
```

Processor
---------

> It is defined in ``soccer/src/soccer/processor.cpp``, and it basically just
> starts a bunch of temp nodes and then has an infinite loop to update the
> context. Context is used to update the ui. It is good that most other nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is defined in ``soccer/src/soccer/processor.cpp``, and it
starts multiple temp nodes. It then updates the context in an infinite loop. Context is used to update the ui. It is good that most other nodes
```

are not dependent on this loop.

Radio
-----

> See the ``/radio`` directory. We have a sim radio for when playing virtual
> matches or testing locally and a network radio for when we run on real

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the ``/radio`` directory. We have a sim radio for when using virtual
matches or testing locally, and a network radio for when we run on real
```

hardware. It sends commands to our robots using the league designated ports
for yellow and blue when in sim mode. The simulation packets are standardized
by the league and in the ``rj_protos`` directory (the ones with the ssl
prefix).

> The network radio expects each robot to know the ip address of where to send

Reviewer 2: to send data? or position? A little confusing based on the sentence.

Author: The network radio expects the robot to know the ip address of the comp computer. I can clarify.

to. When soccer eventually receives a robot status message from a robot, it
adds the robot id to an ip map. Now our software knows how to reach that
robot id. If that robot doesn't send any robot status in a while, it will
disconnect and disappear from the UI (when running with real robots).

Referee
-------
Referee controls the match state. We have an internal referee which can send
quick commands like stop and start from our UI, so we don't always have to
launch the game controller. When we do want to use the game controller
though, the external referee handles that by listening for game events and
updates on specific ports designated by the league.

UI
--
We use Qt for UI development. Code for it is located in ``soccer/src/soccer/ui``.

> The ``qt`` directory contains the view as .ui files and images that are
> placed on the view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``qt`` directory contains the ``view`` as .ui files as well as images embedded into the ``view``.
```

You could directly edit these .ui files based on their
proper syntax to change our view, but I wouldn't recommend it.

> Instead install Qt designer and open .ui files using it to save yourself a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead install Qt designer and open .ui files through it to save yourself a
```

lot of time.

> After the view, all the C++ files act as the view-model for each view.
> Some of them are quite messy and do not follow our naming conventions,
> but if you follow the pattern of other methods, then you should be able to
> add new functionality to any part of our ui.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the view, all the C++ files act as the view-model for each view.
Some of them are quite messy and do not follow our naming conventions; however,
 if you follow the common method patterns, you should be able to
add new functionality to any part of our ui.
```

Vision
------
There are two parts to vision, both equally important: receiver and filter.

First, receiver gets frames from the simulator or camera. It does some
updating, then sends that to the filter. Filter uses a kalman filter to

> estimate the current world state and then publishes that as a built world
> state message which is then published for the rest of codebase to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
estimate the current world state and publishes that as a built world
state message for the rest of codebase to use.
```
